You can invest in commodities by buying the commodity,
like gold itself, or investing in stocks of companies
that make the underlying commodity, like oil companies,
or you can invest in my preferred option,
which is a commodity ETF, which you can also monitor
on your investment portfolio management system.
We will do an exercise on this in the next lesson
but before we do it, before we get there,
I want to talk about why investing in commodities
can be a great addition to your diversified portfolio.
There's a scarcity value when it comes to commodities.
Because of this scarcity value,
the value of most commodities will be higher
in 20 or 30 years from now, okay,
and years ago, I met with the CFO
of a company called the United Technologies, ticker UTX,
and United Technologies is a company
that makes the Otis elevators, okay, and they have lots
of other subsidiaries as well, and the CFO of UTX,
when I met with him, he said to me that
in the next five years, more buildings are going to be built
in China than the cumulative total of all buildings
that have ever been built in every country
since the beginning of time.
Amazing, amazing.
Another statistic I heard about China was that
every single year,
the equivalent electricity grid infrastructure
of the United Kingdom is built in China.
I mean, we certainly live in interesting times.
And so knowing something like that
would make you want to invest in commodities
that go into buildings, right, like copper, or iron ore
for steel, that sort of thing, okay.
And so the easiest way to understand
most commodity price changes is that
if most of the larger economies in the world
see their GDP growing, then the price of most commodities
should rise, as commodities like oil and copper
and iron ore, which goes into steel, and others,
will be used to make more products and buildings, etc.
However, some commodities can be seen as a fear investment,
okay, for example, gold, which has an ETF, ticker GLD
for gold, and GLD, the ticker, can go up a lot in price
if many of the larger countries in the world
are in a deep, deep recession, and gold can rise in price
in times of incredibly uncertain economic
and geopolitical times because people have less faith
in governments and currencies and they think that
gold will hold its value better, and so in 2008,
rough year man, but in 2008, when the global economies
were within 24 hours of bank machines not working,
literally, it was hard to find gold anywhere,
and the same thing can be said about safes,
as they were sold out everywhere.
People were buying gold with cash here in San Francisco
from Chinatown, and people were putting gold in safes
at their houses in case the global economy really collapsed.
Okay, I know that's really out there,
and maybe people that buy gold with cash later sell gold
for cash so that they don't have to pay taxes,
which is illegal of course.
And silver is somewhat similar to gold.
I love silver.
I'm not telling you to buy silver.
Do your own research please.
But silver is somewhat similar to gold
except it is a big input into
many different industrial products, okay, so it's,
although it has kind of a flight-to-quality look and feel
to it at times because it is thought of as being similar
to gold, a lot of it is based on
input into industrial products, right?
A lot of products use silver, okay?
And the ticker for the silver ETF is SLV, okay.
And there's many, many, many ways to invest in oil
as it's basically the largest input into many products.
So instead of buying a barrel of gold,
we can buy many different types of ETFs,
like the ticker USO, which invests in oil in Oklahoma
here in the United States.
And if you want to invest in natural gas,
you can buy the index that has the ticker UNG,
N as in Nancy, U-N-G.
And if you wanted to invest in agriculture-related products,
check out ticker DBA, David, Brian, Arthur,
which invests in soybean, cattle, corn sugar, cocoa,
etc, okay?
And if you want to invest in copper,
just look at ticker JJC, etc., okay?
And so here's a helpful link to a website
that tracks more than 150 commodity tickers
from a website called ETFDB,
which means Exchange-Traded Funds Database.
Many companies that have to buy a lot of commodities
will try to hedge their exposure to risks
and price fluctuations.
Okay, let me give you a fascinating example.
Southwest Airlines, which has the ticker LUV.
Why LUV?
Because Dallas Love Field is the name of the airport
that Southwests operates out of.
Okay, sorry.
But guess what the largest commodity is
that Southwest and all the airlines use?
Of course, it's oil, okay,
and that's why Boeing's new amazing 787 Dreamliner
is selling well, as it's a much lighter airplane
versus the older ones, so it uses less,
obviously less oil to put that bird in the sky.
So Southwest Airlines, ticker LUV, spends a fortune
on oil every year, just like all airlines do.
But what happened last decade was fascinating.
The management of Southwest, they're brilliant, by the way,
but the management of Southwest decided
that since they spend so much money on oil,
it would be smart to lock in the price of oil
that they would pay in the future, at about 30 bucks
many years in the future, and then what happened was this.
After they locked in the price of oil at about 30 bucks
a barrel for years, oil prices rose materially.
Oil prices rose to $100 last decade,
and almost all of Southwest's US competitors
had to increase prices of their tickets by a lot,
just given the massive increase in the price of oil.
Well, what Southwest did was predatory.
They kept the prices the same and even cut the prices
in some markets, and this and other reasons
almost caused every major US airline to go bankrupt,
almost, okay, and Southwest had the foresight to invest
in options, okay, and in what are called futures, right,
to lock in the future price of oil.
Now I don't suggest that you and I invest in options
or futures, but if you go to finance.yahoo.com/commodities,
you can see what the future markets are pricing in
for many different commodity prices,
and if you scroll down a bit on this webpage,
you'll see that this is a great resource
for news on commodity prices.
Okay, and let me warn you though, please.
If you read these news stories, every now and then,
you will, although you will get a better understanding
of how commodity prices move and down,
sometimes you'll see sponsored stories, okay?
Don't click on sponsored stories because there's a bias
in those stories to make you, I don't know,
buy a certain product, whatever it might be, okay?
Just a little side note there, but I care.
Okay, so in the next exercise,
we're going to add commodities
to our investment portfolio management system
in a very similar fashion to what we already did
for stocks and bonds in exercises 18, 19, and 20.